My dear M, thank you for letting me know about T's offer to join with us in the Great Matter. While I still have many ideas for how to prosecute our plan, my days are growing short, as are yours, and we will need to find others of a similar mind who have the wit and imagination to carry it forward. Our ability to influence matters directly will continue to depend on the power of the devices we can fashion, and it will be clear to you that this will require new ways of thinking about the world as well as new technologies to manipulate it. T, together with L and the young E will, I hope, bring a new perspective, and help to keep our little conspiracy alive for another generation. Our adventures so far have, of necessity, been limited in scope, though our acquisition of Babbage's plans and the suppression of his Analytic Engine must count as a highlight. If we are to succeed on the grand scale that we both think is necessary, then it is time for us to formalise our arrangements and to establish a headquarters for our operations. I have given this some thought and have an idea that I hope will please you. We should build a lighthouse in London! I can immediately see your objection. London has no rocky shores, and so no need of one, but your experiments with lanterns give us the ideal excuse to build one as a place to test them. The opportunities this will afford are many: The delivery of large crates of equipment will go unnoticed, considered as part of the natural business of the place; its location on a busy wharf would disguise the necessary comings and goings of our co-conspirators; the waterway will provide us with ready transportation both inland via the canals and to the docks at Tilbury for our international ventures. Not least, the extraordinary power needed for our devices will be mistaken for the energy required to run your public experiments. I have little expertise in the design or engineering of such structures, but I imagine that they require substantial footings. The development of these will provide the cover we need to construct our secret headquarters under the more public face of the lighthouse itself and its ancillary buildings. It may be that I have missed something important in my considerations, in which case please do point that out, but if we are to pass on our discoveries, ambitions and plans to the next generation we will need to give them a more permanent home, so I hope we can agree together on the best way to proceed. Yours, CH

My dearest M,
Can it really be sixteen years since Caroline first proposed this venture? I cannot believe it and wish with all my heart that she could have seen her vision taking shape.
Last Wednesday I took the opportunity you so kindly offered to see the progress with the foundation for myself. I was very encouraged by the industry on display, however I left with a concern that we may have miscalculated in our plans to hide the facility in the basement of the building. The ventilation there will, of necessity, be far more restricted than it would be on the upper floors, as I know from my own research. The evidence from your experiments suggests that our device will produce a very large amount of heat in operation. I cannot say for sure, but it seems likely that this will cause problems, both for the device itself and for its operators.
Looking at the plans, I wondered briefly if we could hide it instead on an upper floor of the lighthouse, but you are likely to have many visitors who are inclined to curiosity, and I suspect the secret would not stay safe for long. We cannot take any risk that might expose us, and even if we keep it behind a locked door, the noise it will generate in operation will propagate more easily across the wharf, leading to questions. In the basement we can at least suppress the noise, reducing that risk, but that leaves the issue of managing the heat.
I am at a loss. Any changes we want to make to the design of the laboratory and its facilities will need to be made very soon, as once the upper floors are built further heavy construction would attract unwanted attention. Perhaps W will be able to suggest something; he is, after all, an engineer. in any case, I was planning to ask him to join us as head of security. I understand that he has some rather interesting ideas about codes and ciphers.

My dear Miss N, While the outbreak of the Austro-Prussian war has dismayed many of the chattering classes, I have found utter delight in the fact that we were able to forecast this development. The fact that we were able to do so, not days, or weeks, but months in advance is the proof that we have been seeking that our methods combined with the power of Professor B’s new device can deliver the knowledge we need to shape our destiny. The new statistical tools that you have pioneered can, I believe, assist us in modelling further outbreaks of violence and unrest. If you will allow me to mix metaphors, while we will not always be able to predict the onset of disease, we can hope to predict its course and thereby profit. The device at Trinity Wharf is now working at full capacity and our colleagues tell me that it can compute anything we ask of it, given enough time and space in which to record the answers. Of course, these practical men did not think to ask how much time any particular question might take before we can receive its answer, but I think this is a calculation that I can leave to you. Before she was taken from us AL wrote extensive notes on the potential of the device, and I suspect you will find the answers therein. In the current context the machine, provided with diplomatic intelligence by our network of agents in Europe, took five weeks to calculate the likelihood that Bismarck would launch his offensive, and to use the weather data gathered by W’s telegraphic network to suggest when the attack would be launched. We had little agency in the conflict itself, but we were able to advise our sympathisers in government and thereby to expand our influence. Our intelligence analysts are now working to determine the likely progression of the conflict in the hope of finding new ways to profit from it. In mentioning W, I realise that I forgot to pass on his advice concerning security. He has convinced me that our current policy of communicating via substitution ciphers really is not sufficient to conceal our intentions. As our network expands the risk of leaks increases. He is working on a new and considerably more fiendish cipher, to be used for our most delicate secrets, and I hope to hear more about his progress on that when I meet him next month. Maxwell will be delivering the Bakerian Lecture and he is hoping to attend. I did wonder if M would be amenable to joining our conspiracy, but perhaps I should discuss that with the rest of the Curia. I look forward to hearing your deliberations on the efficiency of the device and any thoughts you might have on its development. Best wishes, ABC


On a less pressing matter, our first experiments with the prototype are showing some success. If we had been able to run them earlier this year, we may even have been able to profit from the Schleswig conflict, and it may not be too late to do so if we can mobilise our agents. There is much to play for here. Others will be seeking to gain from the conflict, and I see no reason why we cannot do so too.
Ever yours,
FN


With the growing threat of war, our activities have necessarily grown in scale and complexity and with that there is a growing risk that our mission will be uncovered by one of the parties to the conflict. I have been able to drip feed intelligence to the Western Allies via their agent Harry, and as far as I can tell he remains ignorant of our true purpose. Nonetheless the risk remains high of one or both sides acquiring the secret to atomic weapons early and we will need to act fast if we are to prevent this. The loss of the Hindenburg presented a fabulous opportunity and I used it to make sure that the Allies understood what the Nazi scientists were working on. I have tried not to provide Harry with too much information at this stage, since it is crucial to our mission that we maintain the balance of uncertainty. It is not at all clear who might win the nuclear arms race, but our experience of the months and years leading up to the Great War suggests that the race will have its own momentum, and it will take considerable effort by all of us if we hope to direct it to our advantage. AUGUSTA

i think boss might suspect something they drafted the report on the lighthouse discovery over a month ago and have still not forwarded a summary to us here in the us i cant risk making enquiries through the usual channels but i think we need
to investigate i am disappointed that the trinity team left files in the basement when they shipped out but they did not have a lot of warning and at least they dont seem to have left anything current for harry to find if they had he wouldnt
have passed the investigation to the archaeologists it would have gone straight upstairs for action i am in two minds about it if anyone else was investigating i would say we should ignore it they are unlikely to make much of a historical
curiosity but if anyone could trace the link to us now then harry and jodie are the ones to do it jodie is a terrier who wont let anything go once she has her teeth into it and harry has been around long enough to know when something trivial
is actually important on balance i think i will need to be on the ground where i can hope to influence the direction of their enquiries for the good of everyone we need to keep a very low profile atleast while the boss investigation is hot 
so unless the system flags a real crisis we will have to dial down our activities for a while we will carry on with forecasts but will not act on them unless the threat level rises to ten even then the curia will need to meet to decide whether
 it is wise to take action i will head to london to take charge of misdirection you can contact me at the embassy charlie